# The Resistance

The aim of this project was to create an AI agent that was capable of performing well in the game '**The Resistance**'. The agent was to be based on any algorithm or technique discussed up to that point in the module (decision trees, behaviour trees, blackboards, neural networks, reinforcement learning, or evolution).

There would then need to be a full report on the development of the agent, covering the entire development process. A full background and literature review of the game, as well as the chosen algorithm would have to be completed to justify why the chosen algorithm would be suitable.

A full experimental study and performance analysis would then need to be completed, demonstrating reasoning behind every decision made in the behaviour of the agent, and documenting any issues, remedies, and discoveries during development.

An accompanying README text file was also to be included, providing instructions on how to use the submitted files.

The final agent was developed using a neural network classifier, as well as some optimised behaviour in order to make good use of the data predicted by the classifier.

The purpose of the files and directories within this project are explained briefly below:

- '**fredbot.py**'

  - This file contains the bot that acts as a simple observer. This bot records data on the behaviour of the other bots, before exporting this into a log file.

- '**FredBot.log**'

  - This file contains the log file that is generated by the '**fredbot.py**' bot. This contains the data which the classifier will use to train.

- '**classifier_fredbot.ipynb**'

  - This file contains the classifier used to predict each bots' level of suspicion. Data is imported using the generated '**FredBot.log**' file, and the trained model is exported to the '**fredbot_classifier**' directory.

- '**neural_fredbot.py**'

  - This file contains the main bot for this project. It inherits behaviour of the original '**fredbot.py**' bot, allowing it to observe the behaviours of the other players. However, with this it also contains its own behaviour based on some predeterimined scenarios. Using the observed data with the classifier model will allow this bot to predict each bots' level of suspicion in being a spy. Along with the provided behaviour, this allows the bot to take advantage of this predicted information to hopefully improve its chance of winning.

- '**readme.txt**'

  - This file contains the original README file submitted as part of this submission. It contains an overview of the different files, as well as how to use the submitted files within the game engine.

- '**report.pdf**'

  - This file contains the background research and experimental study in relation to the devlopment of this project.

- '**fredbot_classifier**'

  - This directory contains the exported classifier model.

## The Game Engine

The provided game engine is a copy of The Resistance written in Python.

The '**ce811-the-resistance-main.zip**' file contains all the files necessary to run the Hanabi game engine within Python. The files contain various different bots exhibiting different behaviours.

The following are the provided steps required to get the game engine up and running:

1. Extract the contents of the '**ce811-the-resistance-main.zip**' file.
2. Change to the main directory as shown here `..\ce811-the-resistance-main`.
3. Run a series of games using the command `python competition.py 1000 beginners.py`.

The engine can be run with a different number of games and a different selection of bots by changing the arguments in the above command. This command will run **1000** games using the bots located within the '**beginners.py**' file, and average the results.

NOTE: This game engine may be the same as the one found [here](https://github.com/aigamedev/resistance), however I for this project I have used the one that was provided.

## Project Feedback

Below is the project feedback as it was presented to me. I was awarded a grade of **92.5%** on this project.

---

Did the code run easily? Yes, the code all ran first time without me having to fiddle about.

README file clear? Yes, very clear.

Total win-rate against the intermediate agents (in my test run): 51.5.

Method used: Neural bot with optimised architecture, plus improved training-set size, plus more advanced playing logic crafted in.

Comments on your bot code: All code ran.

Comments on your report: The report covers analysis and explanation of the improved playing logic. The results show a step-by-step improvement achieved with each change made. The final bot produced plays very well. The overall performance improvements are down to a combination of improved neural network plus improved playing logic. The works shows a really good understanding and good results - well done.
